In this lesson, we're going to talk about how to set up
some of the core EC2 Services, AWS Services.
In particular we going to cover how to launch EC2 Instance virtual machine,
and also set up what's called a LAMP stack,
Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP.
We will set up an Apache Web Server,
also set up a MySQL Database along with PHP what's called a middleware,
which sits between your HTML and Database.
And all these are pretty easy to configure.
However, we won't dive into depth to any of these topics,
we won't cover Database, or PHP, MySQL.
However, what we want to show is how to spin off an Instance which machine of
these pretty quickly and set up REST API using PHP.
On that note, I'll hand it of to Sergio who'll kind of walk through the steps.
I'll switch the slides here.
As Gan said, the first thing we're going to do is set up our EC2 Instance.
And to do that, we need to download a key pair.
The key pair acts as a password so that only you or
anyone who has that key pair can log in to your EC2 Instance via SSH.
Then we're going to actually configure and launch an Instance.
Then we want to associate an IP address,
because we're going to set it up as a website and we
want to connect to it through a browser,
and to do that we need an IP address.
Then after that we're actually going to connect and it will install
the rest of Apache, MySQL, and PHP.
So, if we go on over to my screen,
you can see this is the homepage for when you log in to your AWS account.
What you're going to want to do is up here you hit services and you go to EC2.
The first thing, like we said is to create a key pair.
So right here, on the EC2 dashboard,
you click on key pairs and you go ahead and just create one.
Name it anything you want.
You could probably name it the name of your application.
And what's very important to note is that,
when you create it it's a lot like the access key for your AWS account.
You can only download it once,
and once you've downloaded it that's going to be stored.
You want to back it up probably more than once just for safety.
So you get a key pair for your account and a key pair for EC2?
Yeah. For each EC2.
And you can use the same key pair for different servers for an EC2.
And it's also important that when you download it,
it automatically takes the file permissions that
your desktop or whatever machine you're currently running sets it to.
And Amazon doesn't want that.
Amazon wants it to be a very specific set of permissions.
So what you're going to do is open up your terminal,
and go into the directory where you downloaded it, I have it right here.
And you're going to want to change the permissions,
you're going to write chmod.
The specific portions that Amazon wants is 400 and then the name of your pem file.
So you go ahead and hit enter and there we go.
Now it's ready to be used.
The next thing we're going to want to do is actually configure and launch the Instance.
So you're going to go ahead and go back to your EC2 dashboard,
and you can see this big blue button says Launch Instance, go ahead and click that.
And since we're on Linux, we're going to use Ubuntu right here.
You click that select.
Okay. Is it possible to go back to that screen?
Yeah.
Okay.
This is what I mentioned they can pick.
Here is the screen which if you don't want Ubuntu,
you want to use a Windows Instance, you can do that here.
This is a virtual machine you choose what type of OS you want to launch here.
Since we've been using Ubuntu here, we chosen Ubuntu.
But you can see, there are all flavors of operating systems here.
In fact, in the future you can create
specific machine images called Amazon Machine Image,
which has the required software installed in there.
For example, you may want to create an Instance with the next Apache, MySQL,
PHP preinstalled in there,
and all these community images available which makes life easier for you.
But here, we just launching a Core Ubuntu,
Bear Ubuntu, and we're going to install software on top of it.
So you go ahead and hit that select from the Ubuntu.
And lucky for us the configurations we need we can use all the default.
Everything default is going to be free to your eligible.
So if you have that 12-month free tier you can go ahead and use that.
The only thing we're going to have to change
is up here number six, configure security group.
This is basically showing you what you're allowing your server,
your EC2 Instance to be connected through.
As you can see, all we have right now is SSH which happens to be on port 22.
We want to add HTTP because we're going to want to
be accessing this through the browser and that's done through HTTP.
So you go ahead and click Add Rule,
you find HTTP and that's it.
It's on port 80 as it should be,
you can go ahead and click review launch.
This takes you to a review page where you
can look at everything that you might have changed.
But for us, since our default configurations are perfect,
the only thing we changed was adding HTTP as a way to connect.
And you go ahead and click launch.
Now, right here it's going to ask you what key pair do you want to use?
If you hadn't created one up until this point,
you can create one right here and download it from here.
But since we already made one,
we're going to go ahead and use that one.
So myapplication.
And it asks you to acknowledge that you already have this because if you don't have this,
you're not able to log in to your EC2 Instance at all.
And you go ahead and click launch.
Now, you can go back to view instances,
and you see that it's pending.
It's currently initializing.
While it's doing that,
we're going to associate an IP address with this because we want to connect to a browser,
we want to have an IP address that we can connect to it with.
So over here on the left,
you go down to Elastic IPs in the Network and Security,
and you allocate a new address.
It's as easy as just telling it to allocate.
And there you have an IP address.
So you go ahead and close that.
And what you want to do with this IP address,
is you want to click actions and associate it.
You want to associate it with an Instance,
being the Instance we just created that would be this one.
And you want to associate it to that Instance as private IP,
and there's only going to be one right here.
So you just go ahead and click that one,
and you click associate and succeeded. So you can close that.
Now, we can go back to our EC2 dashboard,
and now you notice it says we have one running Instance.
That means it's set up and ready to go, it's running.
We're going to go ahead and copy this IP address,
which is that same IP address that we just
created so that we can actually SSH into our server.
So you go ahead and open a new terminal,
or the one you had already,
and you want to type in ssh.
And whenever you use the pem file it's -I and the name of your pem file.
And then EC2 automatically names
your user for the server Ubuntu if you chose the Ubuntu AMI.
If you chose the Amazon AMI,
it would be EC2 user.
And if you chose the Red Hat one it's another one I think
it's redhat@ and then your IP address.
For us, we're going to type ubuntu@ and then our IP address that we were just given.
Go ahead and click enter, you say yes.
Oh, it denied us because the chmod didn't go through. One second.
We're going to add IP address.
And there we go. We're in.
Now that we're in,
we've completed the Linux portion of our installation.
So we have the server running Linux and it's ready to go.
The next thing would be to install Apache, MySQL and PHP.
You may want to show them one since you're in
the command window like you're inside the virtual machine.
right now you can glimpse it on them.
Oh yeah you can look, this is clearly not my machine.
It shows right here you're logged in as Ubuntu at IP 172.
This is the private IP that your instance has created for you.
If you look at everything in here you can see that we're in
Ubuntu terminal and it's completely blank right now. There's nothing in here.
And what we want to do is install Apache2,
MySQL and PHP but before we do that we want to run apt get update.
If we don't run this so we forget to do this,
some of the PHP installation is going to fail because it's not up to
date and that's an issue that needs to be fixed but for now
as long as you do apt update it's going to be fine.
The first thing we do is Apache.
So that would be sudo apt get install Apache2.
You're going to get that, you go ahead and say yes and it begins installing.
What it's doing now is installing all the configuration files and
setting everything up so that you can connect via HTTP.
It's already set to go and if you want to test this you can already go into a browser,
type in your IP address and look at it run.
I highly recommend that you read this page because it
gives you a lot of information about how Apache works.
For example if I just typed in an IP address,
at first you may not know,
how does it know to go here,
where's all this coming from.
If you read this you'll see that this file is located at var/ww/html/index.
So if we go into our terminal and look at that directory,
var/ww/html we see the index file.
You can look at that index file and if you were to make any changes in this file,
those changes would be shown on your website over here.
So I do highly recommend you read this.
It's very important to know.
Now, that's it for Apache.
It's all set up to run and host off of this directory.
And what we want to install next is the MySQL server.
That's also a simple install.
You just do sudo apt get install MySQL dash server.
You go in and say yes and it's going to ask you for a password.
You want to set up an account for this user, for this MySQL.
The default is root and that's going to be obviously the root user.
So go ahead and type in a password.
It's going to ask you to repeat it,
and there we go.
It's unpacking and setting everything up.
Once it's done we'll go ahead and log in.
We can test that it's working fine by logging in using the command MySQL dash U.
Dash U is denoting which user you want to use.
We're going to go ahead and use root and then dash P. Now you could type in whatever
your password was right here but it's not
typically not a good idea to write your password in the terminal.
So you just write dash P and then it prompt you for your password,
and you type that.
Now you're logged into MySQL secure and you would use
regular SQL query language to parse through your databases.
It shows that we have those. And this is just
to show that MySQL is functioning properly on our server.
So now from the lamp stack we have the Linux server
running and we have Apache and MySQL installed.
The next thing to do is to install PHP.
Now, if you want to use PHP with Apache,
there are certain configurations that you have to change in your Apache file and
that's located in etc/apache2/apache2conf.
But luckily if you install it the way we're about to install it,
you don't have to do any of that.
All you have to do is sudo apt get install PHP.
That's going to start PHP, the latest version of PHP.
And now what I was talking about where you
won't have to go into the Apache configuration files,
you just type libapache2-mod-php and PHP mcrypt.
These are two things that are going to set up Apache to be able
to take in PHP files and not just plain HDMI files.
And we also since we're going to want to use PHP with MySQL you
also want install PHP there we go,
PHP crypt script and
you also want to install PHP MySQL because we're going to want to use MySQL through PHP.
You want to go ahead and say yes all this and let it install.
What it's doing is automatically going through the Apache configuration files
and inserting some lines that say PHP is okay to use for our purposes.
And there we go. And that's it for installing lamp.
Now you have Linux Apache, MySQL and PHP.
If you wanted to say create a new file or a new link on your website,
say you want to do info.php.
Currently it's not found because it doesn't exist.
The way you do that is go into this directory var/ww/html
and that's where Apache is saving your file and
you simply create info.php and we're going to make a very simple php file.
This command right here really is a command to test
whether or not php is working on your machine.
You type php.info and it's just going to output a bunch of information about PHP.
You save that and now if you try going onto
this website you'll see all this information on this new file that you just created.
And one last thing to know about using Apache is that right now we're in
a similar directory and if we wanted to
say create a new link so that it's not just info.php,
say you want to be able to access some user data.
You do users/user.
You want to append something so that you have a directory style in your URL.
The way you would do that is you actually make a directory called
users in this HDMI directory.
So now you can see that it's there but an issue with
the Apache and is something that you should really take note of every time.
Now that I've created this user directory,
if I log into that link I'm going to get this really weird looking index.
It's just a text file that shows me the directory.
You don't want this because then you might have someone log in your website
and be able to parse through your directories and that's typically not safe.
So what you should do is every time you create a new directory like users,
you want to also create a file called index in there.
Now you can make it index.html or index.php because we have done that for all of them.
So we're going to go ahead and call it index.php and we'll make another simple PHP file.
This time we'll just have it say,
this is my user's directory.
And now if we go ahead and go back to
this user's page it'll automatically take us to that index.php.
This is just so that people won't be able to parse through
your actual files and it's going to look more like a website.
Make sure you have an index.php in every directory that you put there.
And that kind of does it for installing lamp on an EC2 server and getting it ready to go.
And one last thing you want to add is you want to talk about
parsing the virtual machine when not in use so they don't get charged for it?
Yeah, if you have the free tier it's fine to leave going as long as you use
that specific instance but if you don't want it to keep running,
you're going to want to go ahead and go back into the EC2 dashboard,
look at the one running instance you have and then this is the one right here.
You want to do actions,
instance state and stop.
It's going to stop it and
you go ahead and click yes and it's going to tell you it's stopping.
Now, once it's stopped,
you can start it up again.
If you want to completely delete one of
your instances you're going to want to hit actions state and terminate.
That'll completely delete it and you won't be able to recover the information on there.
It's also important to note that if you want to
make sure you're not being charged say when you're 12 months tiers over,
you're also going to want to go into your elastic IPs and
since you have an IP right here you click actions and disassociate address.
And once you've disassociated the address,
you right click on there again on the address itself and you're going to want to click
release address so that you're no
longer using it and Amazon is free to use that IP address whenever they want.
And that's how you would parse any sort
of things that require money for your EC2 instances.
And that just about does it for setting up EC2 instance
with a lamp stack and creating a very simple website.